---
layout: post
title: "My Story"
date: 2016-02-19 12:47:10
categories: ["my story", "soberlife"]
tags: ["recovery", "sober thoughts", "sobriety", "xa"]
---

My first experience with booze was pretty miserable.&nbsp; I was probably about 13 years old or so when a friend came over to my house while my parents were not home.&nbsp; Never one to miss an opportunity to misbehave, he suggested that we should get drunk.&nbsp; We locked my brother out of the house and proceeded to raid my parents liquor stash.&nbsp; In order to assure that they wouldn’t notice, my friend suggested that we take a little from each bottle and combine them all into a tumbler.&nbsp; Then we took shots.

Imagine, if you will, a concoction that included (minimally) the following: vodka, bourbon, creme de mint, liquor 43, peach schnapps and possible tequila.&nbsp;&nbsp; It is a wonder I didn’t hurl on the first drink.

We got good and drunk.<!--more-->&nbsp; I probably had 8 shots.&nbsp; And then panic ensued.&nbsp; I was really drunk and knew my parents would be home soon.&nbsp; A cold shower.&nbsp; Some questions.&nbsp; Dinner with the family and early bed.

I don’t know if my parents ever suspected anything, but I didn’t get in trouble.&nbsp; They did ask why my friend was asleep in the field next to the house.&nbsp; They must have known what was up — how could I have possibly hidden it?

I didn’t touch the stuff again until I was in my junior year of high school, and then it was pretty casual.&nbsp; A beer here or there, but I wasn’t a drinker in high school.&nbsp; When I was 16 I had two seizures and that pretty much ended any experimentation with alcohol for the time being.

Then I got to college.&nbsp; Penn State.&nbsp; Everything changed.

I started school in the summer of 1990 and had something like 7 credits, an 8:00 Logic class followed by a 10ish Philosophy class and a gym class - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday.&nbsp; Nothing on Wednesday.&nbsp; I was done by noon every day.&nbsp; Most of the summer was spent at the outdoor pool which was conveniently located next to chicken coops.&nbsp; We smoked cigarettes to cover the smell of chicken shit. In the evenings we went to parties at various fraternities.

I was a novice when it came to booze in those days.&nbsp; I was a real "two can Sam" to be sure.&nbsp; Despite the fact that my first experience with liquor was from my parent’s stash, I’d grown up in a house where alcohol was relatively taboo.&nbsp; Mom and Dad didn't drink with any regularity.&nbsp; I'd never seen my Mom drunk and had only seen my Dad tipsy a few times.

However, I quickly got my wings.&nbsp; Within a few months, I was a champion drinker and was hanging tough with the rest of my then pledge brothers.&nbsp; At 17 and a half you really do believe yourself to be invincible.&nbsp; We were all smoking, drinking and eating like pigs.&nbsp; I packed on the weight quickly and surpassed the freshmen 10 moving straight on to the freshman 20.&nbsp; If you consume most of your calories in the form of beer and fast food, this will happen.

And so it goes, college was largely a party.&nbsp; Sure I studied, and got pretty good grades (after my abysmal 2nd semester showing of a 2.8 in Freshman year), but by and large we partied at least 3 nights a week.&nbsp; At the fraternity we had a keg on tap 24/7.&nbsp; We marked our beers off on a sheet and paid 25 cents per beer and 5 cents for a plastic cup.&nbsp; This actually was a source of revenue for the fraternity, believe it or not.

When I turned 21 in the fall of my Senior year, I was on top of the world.&nbsp; I had a light load of credits in the spring and was able to go to the bars nearly every night.&nbsp; In fact, I think that in the spring semester of 1994 I may have been sober a total of 6 nights.

After graduation, I settled into working life and pretty much mellowed out in my 20s.&nbsp; There were plenty of weekend drinking fests, to be sure, but by the time I was 24 I was not drinking on week nights with regularity.&nbsp; By my early thirties, I was not drinking on weekends that much either.&nbsp; There were many Friday nights when I finished the work week and simply got a sub from Quiznos and watch TV.&nbsp; Ironically, I met my wife in a bar when I was 31 — I say ironically because neither of us were really drinking that heavily at that point in our lives.

And so, my thirties went.&nbsp; I would occasionally get out of hand on a weekend night, but that was largely a thing of the past.&nbsp; I had become a “social drinker” and was perfectly content to go to a friends barbecue and have 2 beers over a few hours and drive home.

I always had rules.&nbsp; Drinking and driving was always out of the question.&nbsp; As was drinking before 5 — unless it was a “special occasion” like a Penn State Football game or a fishing trip on the Chesapeake Bay.&nbsp; But those were few and far between.

My son was born in December of 2007.&nbsp; I don’t know what it was to trigger an escalation in my drinking but within 8 months of his birth I was starting to go off the rails.&nbsp; I distinctly remember being in Lewes, DE and finishing a bottle of bourbon in 3 or 4 nights.&nbsp; Now, that doesn’t sound all that bad (considering where I ended up), but it was only the beginning.

Soon, I found that I was no longer buying just beer but I was actively looking for beers that were 8, 9 or 10 percent alcohol.&nbsp; No longer was the Dogfish 60 Minute IPA my go to, but the Dogfish 90 Minute (9%) was my go to beer.&nbsp; And then there were the 10+ percent beers.&nbsp; Eventually, I found that I was buying these big beers as well as bourbon.&nbsp; At some point, I was buying bourbon more than I was buying beer.&nbsp; And then, I was alternating liquor stores so that they wouldn’t notice that I was buying a bottle every two days.&nbsp; (In the end, I didn’t even bother to alternate).&nbsp; This progression was not instant, but occurred over a period of approximately 7 years. In the end, I was drinking at least a half of a 750 ml bottle of bourbon a day and several high octane beers.

As I mentioned, I had rules.&nbsp; And these rules kept me out of trouble.&nbsp; I never got a DUI.&nbsp; I never got into a bar fight. I never had any trouble with the law.&nbsp; I was able to get up and do my job every day.&nbsp; I never missed an appointment.&nbsp; I lied to myself.&nbsp; I told myself that I didn’t have a problem because of these miracles.&nbsp; But, deep in my heart, I knew that was not the truth.

Increasingly, I was having trouble remembering what I’d cooked for dinner the night before.&nbsp; Increasingly, I didn’t remember conversations that I’d had with my wife.&nbsp; Increasingly, I was blacking out.

I was also having problems with sleep.&nbsp; I’d drink until I passed out around 9 PM (conveniently I would put my son to bed every night) and then wake up around 2 or 3 in the morning.&nbsp; And my mind would race.&nbsp; I would not be able to go back to sleep.&nbsp; Most nights I’d move to the guest room, so I wouldn’t disturb my wife.

And yet, I told myself that I didn’t have a problem.

Over the spring and summer of 2015, I found myself in a place that I wouldn’t wish on anyone.&nbsp; I found that I was drinking against my will.&nbsp; I would actually think “I really shouldn’t do this,” as I poured my first drink.&nbsp; Not only that, but my tolerance had increased so dramatically that I couldn’t drink enough to pass out before the intense feelings of self loathing crept in.&nbsp; Many nights, despite my best efforts to numb the world out and pass out, I had to give up that goal and simply go to bed because I was too depressed.

I didn’t have a dramatic event that caused me to stop.&nbsp; It was purely my conscious.&nbsp; I woke up on 9/21/15 and knew that I couldn’t keep doing it.&nbsp; I knew it was time to call it quits.&nbsp; And so I began to slowly surrender.

It took me another 3 days to actually get there. My sobriety date is <a href="{{ '/soberboots/2015/10/28/its-taken-a-long-time-for-me-to-get-here/' | relative_url }}">23 September 2015</a>, that was the first day that I didn't have anything to drink.&nbsp; It was also the first time I went to a meeting with the full intention of staying sober.&nbsp; On the <a href="{{ '/soberboots/2015/10/30/surrendering-to-saying-im-an-alcoholic/' | relative_url }}">24th of September</a>, I finally admitted that I was an alcoholic and asked for help.&nbsp; Since then, I haven’t had a drink and my life has <a href="{{ '/soberboots/2016/01/06/shame-insanity-and-awesome-sauce/' | relative_url }}">improved dramatically</a>.

It’s not always easy, but it isn’t hard. There are times when I miss having a beer with friends, but I'd miss not having friends more.&nbsp; I am fortunate that I was able arrest the progression before I started to lose the things that are most important life -- my health, my friends, and my family.
